So there's kind of three common
mistakes that I often come across when
I see people kind of prioritizing
their workloads around features and
minimal viable products and
all that kind of stuff.
And I just wanted to flag up for
people really.
First is rushed The pressure to deliver
is often so high that people jumped
straight into prototyping without doing
any kind of upfront user research and
on the course that we did on user
research and testing, I shared some ways
that you can actually do a discovery
phase pretty quickly and pretty well.
I So, I'm not saying we always need
long drawn out discovery phases with
endless user interviews and diary studies
and all these kinds of convoluted stuff.
But just taking a pause for a minute and
establishing some of the basics
in terms of what users need, who the user
groups are, those kinds of things.
You can't just jump straight
into Figma every time when
you're kicking off a new feature,
or working on an MVP.
The other big problem is post
launch iteration not happening.
I've really already said that, so I don't
need to say a huge amount more there.
But after a feature is delivered,
nobody's checking back to
ensure that it's performing.
Whose job is that?
There's a question for you.
I honestly don't know, right?
Whose job is that?
If you've got a product owner,
then fair enough.
But oftentimes,
there isn't a product owner,
which is a whole problem in its own right,
right?
So if I'm working in
a product design role,
I would take that on as one
of my responsibilities.
Because I feel that, that post launch
optimization and iteration is so
fundamental to the success of
a product and the design of a product,
but I have to keep flagging it.
And then finally,
a lack of holistic thinking.
This can be a problem with Agile, right?
Don't get me wrong, I wouldn't dare
criticize Agile, because I value my life.
But, Agile is, I dare to say
not perfect in every scenario.
And it is a model that has been born out
of developers and how developers work.
And one of the things when it comes
to product design is it's very
important to think holistically and
to kind of see things as a whole.
And when you work in sprints, which
are focused on an individual feature or
something like that, you don't have
that sense of kind of big picture,
how all of these bits fit together.
And so that's dangerous.
And I just wanted to flag that.
In terms of solutions to it,
you can do things like a Sprint Zero
upfront where the designer gets
some time to do that kind of stuff.
I tend to say there is value to that.
But there is another solution that
I'm gonna propose in a minute, but
was there a question, did I see Mark?
>> Yeah, there's a little
bit of discussion going on-
>> I'm scared now,
please don't be horrible to me.
I didn't mean to criticize Agile.
>> No, I feel like product requests should
be handled mostly by the product owner,
not the developers, but also that
depends on how big the company is.
>> Yeah, this is the trouble
with doing a course like this.
It's hugely different talking about
an enterprise customer compared
to something that's the size of front
end masters or maybe even smaller.
Obviously, you have to work in
different ways in different situations.
If you've got product owners, then the
product owner should own the backlog of
features, etc., using all the same
principles that we've talked about, but
the ownership should probably lie on them.
It certainly shouldn't lie on
the developers, in my opinion.
Because, that's not your job, yes?
>> But on the other end, somebody said
that the highest functioning teams that
they've been on the developers did
share some of the product ownership.
>> Yeah,
there's a difference between contributing
to that process and
owning that process, right?
So I'm a great believer that product
should have an owner, right?
A person ultimately makes the decision.
But if that owner is a good owner, right?
They should be working
incredibly collaboratively
with their entire team to define
the order of which things are done with.
So for example, I was saying well,
okay, the pointing of features.
One of the criteria should be the time and
effort involved.
Well, that's down to the developer
primarily to tell you what the time and
effort is gonna be involved in it.
And so, yeah,
it should be a collaborative process, but
that doesn't mean you shouldn't have
someone that ultimately owns it.
Because if everything is done
in this kind of group, think,
mind kind of approach,
things slip through the gap.
Especially around things like post-launch
iteration and stuff like that.
So yeah, there's a balance there.
And it also, it depends on the culture
of the individual organization and
the team that makes it up.
Yeah, go for it.
>> So Valve is a 350 person company,
a multi-billion
dollar game platform that also
makes their own hardware and
games and there are no PMs or
managers there.
Leads are volunteer roles that
focus on organization and
deal with the press and
lead baton is passed every few years.
But they do have leads.
>> Yeah.
>> It's just they're a little bit more
fluid.
>> Valve is an really
interesting case study.
I love Valve and
the way that they operate.
Which is this like for example, I don't
know whether it's like anymore, but for
a long time,
projects with the survival of the fittest.
If you had an idea for a product,
you had to persuade the team to come and
work with you on that product, right?
Brilliant, really interesting.
So they do some really
innovative stuff there.
And it's great to look at them and
go, that's interesting, but
you can't take that and suddenly
plaster that on another organization,
it just doesn't work.
Every organization has
a deep rooted culture and
ways of working, ways of thinking,
ways of behaving.
And something like Valve needs to be
built from the ground up from the very
beginning.
So it is really interesting story, but
I don't think it's one that you can
necessarily learn huge
amounts from personally.
>> Well, I have a question.
So no holistic thinking is a mistake.
How do you prevent holistic overthinking?
Especially, if you have a group where you
try to get contribution from stakeholders,
developers, design team, and
sometimes it's just becomes the war ducks.
>> Yeah.
>> Especially for legacy systems.
>> Yeah, so I would encourage you to
check out my course on user research and
testing, because I use testing and
research to cut through all of that,
right?
So, the problem only comes it's
fine having lots of stakeholders,
all expressing opinions, right?
That's all right, okay?
The problem only comes when a there's
nobody to make the final decision over it.
And b, there becomes points of conflict
and disagreement between the stakeholders,
both of which pretty much always happen,
right?
Those are so common, it's ridiculous.
So, if we don't have someone that's
making the final decision and
who is informed to make
that final decision.
Then, well, let's find out.
Let's get hard evidence to support this.
So whenever there's any kind of
disagreement, I turn to testing, right?
Let's ask users.
Let's find out.
And that course is all about lightweight
ways of basically doing that.
And we will touch more on some of that
latest, if I ever get moving forward,
cuz we're all getting so
into the questions, which is great.
So let's push on.
So yeah,
we've got these three problems, right?
And the last one in particular,
this holistic thinking is a big issue,
because often we don't have time to do
that, yet it's incredibly valuable.